Show a way how ink levels in IPP can be "saved" (#21727)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/ipp.md

It provides information about the printer's state and remaining ink levels.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> Currently, this integration shows ink levels as unavailable when a printer is offline. To save the levels an automation can be used to save them into an input_number helper when the printer comes online or the level is updated. Then a template sensor can be used to display them as sensors even when the printer is offline.

Reviewer: - Some rewording
- Template sensor sounds unneeded

```suggestion
Ink levels are shown as unavailable when a printer is offline. To save the levels for displaying during an unavailability, automation can be used to save them into an [Input Number](/integrations/input_number) helper.
```

Could we add example automation for clarity?

Author: Sounds good for the automation, I will add an example.

Unfortunately, the template sensor is necessary since otherwise the information is not displayed as a sensor in a lovelace card which does not make sense given it is a pure input. The only options "Slider" and "Input field" in Display mode are wrong for this kind of input_number.

Reviewer: Aah, because you want is displayed as a read-only sensor. Why not use a trigger-based template sensor in that case? In such a way it gets updated each time the ink levels change? 

That would remove the need for a helper altogether.

Author: The honest answer is "because this is the first way I got it working". 

If I remember correctly, the issue was that if you use a template sensor, and just use a reference like '{{ states(''sensor.canon_tr8500_series_cyan'') }}', the template sensor will also show as "Unknown" and I was not familiar how to code an exception into the template sensor to not update when the update is "Unknown". The input_number gets around this because it cannot handle "Unknown".

Author: I can try again with the trigger-based template sensor given that my HA YAML knowledge has increased. Btw. this workaround basically solves https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues/64545.

Author: Your solution also has the problem that it does not survive a restart of Home Assistant.

It provides information about the printer's state and remaining ink levels.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Ink levels are shown as unavailable or unknown (depending on printer type) when a printer is offline. To save the levels for displaying during an unavailability, either an automation can be used to save them into an [Input Number](/integrations/input_number) helper and displayed via template sensor or they can be updated via trigger-based template sensor. In the later case the sensor does not retain its state during a reboot of Home Assistant.

## Example for input_number-based solution

This examples creates the sensor "Canon Printer Cyan", updates its value based on the cyan ink level of a Canon TR8500 via an automation and retains its while the printer is offline and while Home Assistant is offline.

An [Input Number](/integrations/input_number) helper named input_number.canon_tr8500_cyan is needed and must created in the Configuration->Helpers menu.

An automation to update the value of the input_number.canon_tr8500_cyan is needed:

{% raw %}
```yaml

> alias: 'background: save printer values'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alias: "Save printer values"
```

> description: ''

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

trigger:
  - platform: numeric_state
    entity_id: sensor.canon_tr8500_series_cyan

>     above: -1

Reviewer: Why is this specific threshold needed?

> condition: []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

action:  
  - service: input_number.set_value
    target:
      entity_id: input_number.canon_tr8500_cyan
    data:

>       value: '{{ states(''sensor.canon_tr8500_series_cyan'') }}'  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      value: "{{ states('sensor.canon_tr8500_series_cyan') }}"  
```

> mode: single

Reviewer: Any specific reason for this not using the default, but `single`?

```
{% endraw %}

A template sensor to display the [Input Number](/integrations/input_number) as a sensor is needed:

{% raw %}
```yaml
template:
  - sensor:

>     - name: "Canon Printer Cyan"      

Reviewer: Stale trailing spaces

```suggestion
    - name: "Canon Printer Cyan"
```

      state: >   

>         {{ states('input_number.canon_tr8500_cyan') | float}}    

Reviewer: the `float` is missing the required default

>       unique_id: "template_canon_printer_cyan"  

Reviewer: This is optional, should not be needed

```suggestion
```

>       icon: mdi:water

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      icon: "mdi:water"
```

      unit_of_measurement: "%"
```
{% endraw %}

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Example for trigger-based template sensor solution

Reviewer: Isn't this confusion considering the above?
